
POL takes place a little after events of GSC/HgSs... About 1-3 years, approx... But nothing too specific. So, in the timeline, all previous games' storylines have already transpired.

An event of HgSs is to use Arceus to create a Dialga, Palkia, or Giratina. In the POL plotline, Gold and Kotone encounter Arceus at the Shinto Ruins and release/create all three. This sets into action a cataclysmic effect. The three vanish into three rifts, a Time Rift, a Space Rift, and a Distortion Rift, before Arceus itself vanishes. For, with the creation of these new behemoths, there are now multiple Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina in the world, and this has created a ripple effect... Rifts of various kinds begin appearing and opening around the world. One such rift opens in Charon's cell. It is a Space rift, and ultimately it deposits him at the heart of Turnback Cave.

Team Rocket
	Has been disbanded by Giovanni, and Neo Team Rocket thwarted by Gold, Crystal, and Silver... Though Team Rocket had not been as disbanded as we all thought. While Giovanni had formally disbanded them, and his own lackeys wandered leaderless, is not the only head of Team Rocket... Madame Boss, Giovanni's mother, still holds a powerful grip on the group. Her schemes are far more profit oriented than even Giovanni's. If money can be made, you can bet her covert operatives are deep in it. Giovanni, having disbanded Team Rocket, had left for Johto, to train, and to seek out his son. His training is in pursuit of another lead... Legends have come to his ears about the powers of the legendary Arceus. His training is in earnest of his intentions, which I'm sure you can guess. But his pursuit of his son is another matter. To regain his son, and to reinstate Team Rocket as a supreme power. He doesn't want to change the world, just to become the greatest and most powerful. He discovers something quite... Interesting... In his travels. In the Ruins of Alph, he learns of more about Arceus... There, he encounters Silver. Silver still, of course, hates his guts over matters regarding his leaving and Team Rocket. They battle, but are interrupted by an earthquake. Ruins topple, and Silver is knocked unconscious... Giovanni rescues his son, but, conscious of his guilt over abandoning his son in the first place, leaves. Giovanni eventually returns to reclaim leadership of Team Rocket, with his new goal in mind. There's kinda a co-leadership going on, with Madame Boss in charge of corporate operations, and Giovanni in charge of the real ops.

Team Aqua and Magma
	Quelled... Team Aqua has settled into a new purpose post-RSE... They are now dedicated to the preservation of the sea, and Archie remains in his position as director of Hoenn's TV Studio, which also handles Radio broadcasts... Though some Aquas are unhappy with this, still fervently believing in the expansion of the sea. Likewise... Team Magma, still led by Maxie... They are now dedicated to the preservation of the land, though some Magmas are also unhappy with this, still wanting to pursue the expansion of the land. News of the appearance of Kyogre and Groudon in Johto reaches their ears. Following up on this, in high concern due to their previous encounters with the behemoths... They learn of Arceus. Both Archie and Maxie see the opportunity of this, a Pokémon that can ensure absolution of their goals. And their subordinates also see this opportunity... To change the past for their own victory!

Team Galactic
	Has lost both Cyrus and Charon.
	Saturn is the only one of Galactic still formally in-power, and his goals are straightforward... The goals Galactic had been spewing idiotically at first - coming up with better alternative energy sources. But Jupiter and Mars aren't entirely out of the picture. They have set off to hunt for Cyrus, trying to find a way to rescue him from the Distortion world. Charon, meantime, is serving time. Saturn remains in control of the bulk of Team Galactic... Mars and Jupiter each follow whatever leads they can into the details of the Distortion Realm... This takes them to the depths of Turnback Cave. It is there that Jupiter and Mars discover him. With the discovery of these rifts, Jupiter and Mars return with Charon to the Galactic HQ, and enlist Saturn's (Team Galactic) aid in seeking out these rifts.
	
Ultimately, Giovanni (Team Rocket) will end up pursuing Palkia, Archie and Maxie (Team Aqua and Magma) will end up pursuing Dialga, and Team Galactic will end up pursuing Giratina. Team Galactic will recover Cyrus, although he will have changed from his extended stay in the Distortion Realm. Team Rocket will traverse many lands, disrupting much in their pursuits. Team Aqua and Magma... Will cross time, battling it out in pursuit of maintaining the Sea/Land respectively, and attempting to alter the past to ensure their own victories in the battles of RSE.

Meantime...

The Pokémon League
	...Also gets involved. The Elite Four of each region and the Gym Leaders begin their investigations of the space/time/dimensional distortions... Cynthia of Sinnoh has debriefed them all on the happenings at the Shinto Ruins. The various Champions of each region, and the Pokémon League begin an effort to locate, enter, and quell the disruptions at each rift. The Pokémon League's Gym Leaders, Elite Four, and Champions are stretched thin, having to cover both their regular duties as well as their efforts relating to the distortions. Thus, they station quest boards in Gyms and at various Pokémon Centers in highly populated areas, seeking the assistance of experienced Pokémon Trainers. The boards become a popular place to post other needs as well, which would normally have been in the duties of the Gym Leaders, but due to higher-priority missions they cannot fulfill the lower-priority ones. The Pokémon League is split into the various Gyms, players who join a Gym as a member will gain access to special quests that the gym specializes in. In other words, a mission for Pewter Gym will likely be ones that Rock Type Pokémon will do best in. Excelling in a specific Gym's quests will reap various related rewards. Progression in this group will earn players Trainer Tools, which allow them to use HM-like abilities.
	The Champions
		Informal members of The Pokemon League. These top-trainers have a reputation as the best of the best. The Pokemon League reserves many key missions for them. Champions are given special rights to access dangerous places and restricted areas.
	The Elite Four
		The highest on the ladder in The Pokemon League. High-priority missions are usually carried out by them. Annually, they will take challenges from trainers to grant the title of Champion.
	The Gym Leaders
		Highly skilled trainers who dedicate to mastery of a single Pokemon Type. There are 8 Gym Leaders per region, with the exception of the Orange Archipelago which has 5. These trainers attend to local affairs outside the jusrisdiction of the police force, but often work in cooperation with them. Gym Leaders are required to confer their badge upon any trainer that bests them.
	Gym Membership
		Gym Members train under the leadership of the Gym Leaders, and generally train pokemon fitting the gym's theme. These members of the Pokemon League can also take on missions, and are given better rewards for filling mission objectives fully.

The Pokémon Rangers
	...Also take a part in the storyline, as wild Pokémon have become highly agitated in response to the distortions. Rangers also have likewise increases in burden, and they too outsource to trainers. Also likewise, the Pokémon Rangers will tend to give quests that revolve around rescue missions, services, and environmental preservation. There will probably be some overlap. I believe Jesse intends to have a high-end Ranger-related quest grant players the ability to have a Pokémon able to follow their trainer outside of its ball with a special gizmo that will allow the Pokémon to "leash" to its trainer, an ability Gold and Kotone apparently have innately (lol). I'll call it a "friendship line" for giggles.

The Police
	And of course, the Police are prominently involved. All of the disturbences of the peace as a result of the outbreak of activity of the major Teams and other events have left them in a state of extreme activity. Their forces spread thin, officers now lead squads of Trainers in executing dispatches.
	
Ultimately, it will culminate in a big showdown with the Teams and Pokémon League and the Rangers and all other Trainers... This event would only be triggered after a player has cleared all of the plot-relevant quests/missions. It is after this point, that the player will have the ability to participate in the high-end events such as catching Dialga/Palkia/Giratina/Arceus. Other legendaries will have their own plot lines/requirements before their events will be accessible. After clearing a region, players will be able to begin collecting Trainer Tools, which range in functions but ultimately allow them to use HM-like abilities on their own. Swimming, Surfing, Diving, Cutting, Strength, Rock Smash, etc. The different groups, Team Rocket, Team Aqua, Team Magma, Team Galactic, Pokémon League, and the Pokémon Rangers, will all be "joinable". In addition, player-formed groups will also be creatable, but they have no significance to the primary plotline, and have more purpose in other aspects of gameplay. The various villain teams' member Players will be able to don their team's standard uniforms, build ranks, and gain access to their team's mission boards. Also, they'll have access to a special collection of "illegal" Pokémon "rentals" exclusive and oriented toward their teams. However, they cannot use these illegal Pokémon in tournaments, but can use them in events. Higher ranks in a team results in the player being able to borrow more and better team Pokémon. Players can never carry fewer than 1 Pokémon of their very own though, and if they resign from a team, will have to return the rentals. Their rank will not be lost (though probably will suffer a minor drop) if they quit though, so they can rejoin at a later time.

Now that I've covered all of the rudimentary fundamentals, I'll fling you a few specific mission/quest idea examples...

	One example, is a mission in Lavender Town. Players visiting in the dark of night will find the town shrouded in Fog, and a Distortion Rift will cause the Ghost Tower to appear in place of the Studio Tower. Entering, players will encounter Agatha, and she will tag-team with the player to battle to the top, for some reason or another... Still working that bit out. At the top, she'll leave you, and vanish, teleporting the player back out... Leaving you to wonder if she was actually there, or an apparation herself! The distortion will be triggerable there at night from then on, allowing players to access the Ghost Tower at their leisure, although the Agatha event is a one-off.
	Other events could appear allowing players to hop in on events from previous games, others to at least pay tribute to games that were only vaguely defined or possibly even outside of canon. Also, events from the Anime may crop up... Likely through Distortion rifts...
	Another event possibility, a short adventure in Orre, players and Team Rocket passing through a Space Rift to the region, encountering Wes and Rui, and the other guy from the other game... His name evades me at the moment. Anyhow... Culminates in the prevention of Team Rocket obtaining the technology that created Shadow Pokémon, but the winner of the encounter comes out of it with a consolation prize regardless.
	In an example of an event unrelated to the primary plot, in the Orange Islands, players could encounter the Crystal Onix and gain access to a shop that sells glass/crystal decorations.
	Or a timetravel event involving Celebi...
	A nightmare event involving Darkrai and Cresselia, tying in a little Mystery Dungeon perhaps...
	Obvious example also is the Shamouti Island event, where players can participate in the tradition and bring the various orbs to their respective locations and witness the legendary bird trio and have unlock the chance at a shot at Lugia.

The possibilities and details are pretty endless, especially considering that we can even create random generated quests also. I'm hoping to eventually have external events also, where forum-goers can claim a free Pokémon or item or something like that for participating, as one would from going to a Nintendo Event. Other regularly occurring events would be...
	Tide changes in the caves north of Mossdeep City...
	A Full-Moon event in Meteor Falls...
	The Bug Catching contest on scheduled days in the National Park...
	The Weekday Siblings...
	The Haircut Bros, Bargain Guy, and Rooftop Sales Events...
	Mirage Island... Sky Pillar... Mirage Tower...

Also events need to be planned for the "recruiting" of the various Battle Tower Partners. Here's a list of them, in case you want to get creative with them... I'll include their Trainer Type, Name, and "home" location, which can vary from where they're recruited.
	Kanto/Sevii:
		Copycat Duplica (Saffron City)
		Pokémon Watcher Tracey (Pallet Town)
		Karate Master Kiyo (Fighting Dojo/Mount Mortar)
		Pokémon Trainer Cal (Viridian City)
		Elite Trainer Loreli (Floe Island)
		Ace Trainer A.J. (Route 9)
	Johto:
		The Poke Dude (Route 29)
		Bird Ace Wayne (Wanderer, Violet City Gym, Cianwood City)
		Lass Carrie (Goldenrod Dept. Store)
		Dragon Tamer Liza (Tohjo Falls/Route 27)
		Pokémaniac Parker "Gligarman" (Route 32)
		Mysticalman Eusine (Celadon City, Ecruteak City)
	Hoenn: Pokémon Trainer Morrison (Verdanturf Town)
		Pokémon Trainer Emerald (Battle Frontier)
		Schoolkid Max (Littleroot Town)
		Pokémon Trainer Tyson (Mauville City)
		Pokémon Trainer Wally (Petalburg City/Verdanturf Town)
		Cooltrainer Vito Winstrate (Route 111)
	Sinnoh:
		Aroma Girl Cheryl (Eterna City/Floaroma Town)
		Aura Guardian Riley (Iron Island)
		Pokémon Trainer Buck (Survival Area)
		Youngster Mira (Hearthome City)
		Pokémon Trainer Marley (Route 224)
		Investigator "Looker" (Interpol Detective)
No Partners for Orange, as it will not boast a Battle Frontier, instead featuring numerous other features.


Mission Listing

Digits 1 & 2 = Affiliation
	00 = Civilian
	01 = Police
	02 = Rangers
	04 = Aqua
	06 = Galactic
	07 = Magma
	09 = Rocket
	10 = Pokemon League Kanto (Indigo Plateau)
	11 = Pewter City Gym
	12 = Cerulean City Gym
	13 = Vermilion City Gym
	14 = Celadon City Gym
	15 = Fuchsia City Gym
	16 = Saffron City Gym
	17 = Cinnabar Island Gym
	18 = Viridian City Gym
	20 = Pokemon League Orange (Pummelo Island)
	21 = Mikan Island Gym
	22 = Navel Island Gym
	23 = Trovita Island Gym
	24 = Kumquat Island Gym
	30 = Pokemon League Johto (Indigo Plateau)
	31 = Violet City Gym
	32 = Azalea Town Gym
	33 = Goldenrod City Gym
	34 = Ecruteak City Gym
	35 = Cianwood City Gym
	36 = Olivine City Gym
	37 = Mahogany Town Gym
	38 = Blackwood City Gym
	40 = Pokemon League Hoenn (Evergrande City)
	41 = Rustboro City Gym
	42 = Dewford City Gym
	43 = Mahogany Town Gym
	44 = Lavaridge City Gym
	45 = Petalburg City Gym
	46 = Fortree City Gym
	47 = Mossdeep City Gym
	48 = Sootopolis City Gym
	50 = Pokemon League Sinnoh (Pokemon League)
	51 = Oreburgh City Gym
	52 = Eterna City Gym
	53 = Veilstone City Gym
	54 = Pastoria City Gym
	55 = Heathome City Gym
	56 = Canalave City Gym
	57 = Snowpoint City Gym
	58 = Sunyshore City Gym
Digits 3 & 4 = Mission Type
	00 = Plot-Related
	01 = Turn In Item (Kind & Quantity) Up to 8 Kinds in one Mission.
	02 = Show Item (Kind) Up to 8 Kinds in one Mission.
	03 = Show Pokemon (Kind) Up to 8 Kinds in one Mission.
	04 = Encounter Pokemon (Species & Quantity) Up to 8 Species in one Mission.
	05 = Capture Pokemon (Species & Quantity) Up to 8 Species in one Mission.
	06 = Defeat Pokemon (Species & Quantity) Up to 8 Species in one Mission.
	07 = Find Trainer (Kind/Name) Up to 8 in one Mission.
	08 = Defeat Trainer (Kind & Quantity/Name/PvP & Quantity) Up to 8 Kinds in one Mission.
	09 = Find Place (Name) Up to 8 Places in one Mission.
	0A = Delivery (Pokemon/Item/Letter) Or any combination of the three.
	0B = Quiz (Q&A/T&F/Y&N) Up to 10 Questions per Quiz.
	0C = Minigame (Kind & Quantity & Conclusion) Up to 8 Kinds in one Mission. Can be Complete/Win/Lose/Tie.
	0D = Rescue (Find/Escort) Up to 3 Targets in one Mission.
	0E = Support (Team Up & Objective) Up to 8 Objectives in one Mission.
	0F = 
Digit 5 = Difficulty Level
	0 = No Challenge (Local, Easy, Immediate Objective)
	1 = Trivial
	2 = 
	3 = Easy
	4 = 
	5 = Average (Local Objective)
	6 = 
	7 = Challenging
	8 = 
	9 = Hard
	A = 
	B = Very Hard
	C = 
	D = Insane
	E = 
	F = Impossible (Distant, Level Capped, Rare, Complex Objective)
